Title: Porn
Date: 2002-12-25 05:31:17
Slug: 2002/12/25/porn
Tags: en, Life, Porn, Sex, WTF


[Toronto Star][1] - "Men, looking for the perfect Christmas present? How about
giving up pornography? It's the best present you could give your wife this
year. […] But the crowning argument against pornography is the damage it does
to relationships with loved ones. That is what motivates this particular
column. The reason I highlight pornography here is because I keep running into
it as a pastor. I keep encountering couples whose marriages have been shaken
by the husband's secret -- and, inevitably, discovered -- use of pornography."
[[Monoklon.de]][2]

Feck, I'm doomed. :P

Yes, I am interested in porn. Not 24/7, not in every type, but sometimes it's
kinda … nice … to have access to the biggest library of free porn on the
planet, errm, I mean, to the internet. And let me tell you one thing: I think
every man who claims to have never looked at porn, or claims to not find it
appealing in some way (mind you, there are several levels and types of porn),
is lying. My opinion. Porn is made by men (mostly) especially for men
(mostly), so it's supposed to appeal mostly to men, on a very subtle level.
There's nothing you can do about it, if it's "good" pornography (i.e.
delivered in the right way for _your_ subconciousness), your mind and your
body will react to it. You can't suppress it, so why bother to try.

I agree that consuming too much porn or the wrong type of porn can be
dangerous to a relationship, but hell, it's the same with alcohol or slasher
movies. Everything can be dangerous …even seemingly harmless things like fly
fishing. If the husband is spending all of his spare time on the river
fishing, or in front of the TV filling himself up with barrels of bad american
pseudo-beer, his wife might actually leave him after a while. Recap: Yes, porn
can be a threat to a relationship, but there are a lot of things it can't do.
It might be able to give you a cheap kick, but it'll never be as good as the
real thing, and it'll never replace the love in a relationship. It's cool
every now and then, but if has priority over making love with your better
half, then you have other problems anyways and should see a psychiatrist. ;)

Talking freely with your wife about watching porn every now and then might
help as well. I do - it's nothing wrong with watching bad actors having
idiotic lines (favourite quote: "Uuuuh, now what do we have here?" - it's your
damn job to _know_ for sure, stupid!) and making out, as long as you stay
within healthy boundaries.

So, porn is nothing more like a tool you _can_ use to get a cheap kick, but
it's definitely not the devil per se and this article is pathetic. :P

   [1]: http://www.thestar.com/NASApp/cs/ContentServer?pagename=thestar/Layout/Article_Type1&c=Article&cid=1035775814852&call_pageid=991479973472&col=991929131147
   [2]: http://www.monoklon.de
