Title: Morning Coffee Notes
Date: 2002-10-23 14:09:40
Slug: 2002/10/23/morning-coffee-notes


Still waiting for the coffee, but who cares…

Finally got Dana's car back onto the road. Needed a little kick in the
battery's ass, looks like it was too dry on the inside, but it's running fine
so far. I just hope I'll make it to the next gas station which is one klick
away… ;)

Outside the window it's a bright and nice autumn day. Colored leaves
everywhere, just beautiful to look at.

Got rid of my existing Win2k-turned-into-XP partition last night and finally
installed a _clean_ copy of XP from scratch. Looooooking good. Got all the
networking set up last night, including the proxy and the firewall to get
Dana's box connected, then did something for the looks by installing [Y'z
Shadow][1] (WindowFX2 was just too much plus it didn't give a damn about some
preferences, and the price tag was rather ugly), [IconPackager][2] with the
great [XP iCandy 1.0 pack][3], some translucent OSX cursors and setting the
overall theme to XP Silver. I decided to keep the system [StyleXP][4]-less,
tho. Too much theme-related overhead, I think. In the end, I had 20 themes
installed on my old XP, while I was using just one.

Last night I decided I don't like the Windows registry. It makes copying
existing configurations for tools and apps nearly impossible. Very annoying if
you set up a new system but want to keep the old settings. Apps like
[Mozilla][5] or [JAJC][6] are different - you move the program directory, you
move the settings folder from the old to the new location - done. Everything's
running just like before, the configurations are in place and working. I like
that.

I don't have nearly enough time to work on [Class.Jabber.PHP][7], which is a
fun project. Too bad. Ah well, doesn't run away.

Project "Friendly Cussing": if you have to curse, replace every "fuck_" with a
"smurf_". You'll be surprised how well this works, language-wise - and it'll
make you wonder if the [Smurfs][8] are really as good for kids as they seem to
be. ;)

   [1]: http://www.h5.dion.ne.jp/~yzathome/software/yzshadow/
   [2]: http://www.stardock.com/products/iconpackager/
   [3]: http://www.deviantart.com/deviation/793134
   [4]: http://www.tgtsoft.com/
   [5]: http://www.mozilla.org
   [6]: http://www.jabber.ru/projects/jajc/
   [7]: http://phpjabber.g-blog.net
   [8]: http://www.smurf.com/
