Title: Bitter DVD player rant ahead, caution
Date: 2003-02-08 02:16:58
Slug: 2003-02-08-bitter-dvd-player-rant-ahead-caution


The fucking DVD player did it again. I'm beyond pissed at Mustek DVD players
in general now. I know that there are probably 50 gazisdfzuuwezhillions (I
learned this number from Dr. Evil) happy Mustek owners out there, might be, I
don't care - I got the **2nd** v562 with problems here now. The first one
started to have issues with the loading mechanism after about 7 months. The
tray wouldn't stay out, and you had to hit the eject button half a dozen times
until it graced us with its decision to stay out.

So I brought it back and got a brand spanking _new_ replacement. All was good,
or so I thought.

Imagine my surprise when I noticed today that it doesn't like DVDs. Yes,
that's right. Every frickin' time I try to watch a DVD -- _any_ DVD -- the
picture is distorted. Looks like you're watching a very old and screwy VHS
tape that has been copied twenty times too often. MP3s and audio CDs are fine.
Crystal-clear sound, but fucked up image. Great. Just great. And the thing is
two weeks old. ARGH.

Unfortunately, the money-back guarantee is only valid for two weeks after the
initial purchase, so even tho I got a new player as replacement, I couldn't
bring it back to get my money back. I can only bring it back and hope they
replace it once again. I'm sooo upset. (Hence [the webcam picture earlier
on][1].)

Now I'd love to buy a like-priced [Cyberhome CH-DVD505][2] (excellent player,
a good friend of mine is totally happy with his, plus I've read a lot of
glowing reviews, can handle everything disc-shaped and shiny), but since I
can't get the $130 back I spent on the Mustek, I'm stuck with this frickin'
brick until I can whip up the money for the Cyberhome. Yay! w00t! Hurray! â€¦
Goddammit, did I mention I'm pissed?

There are two players on the market playing DVDs, VCDs, SVCDs, MP3, CDs etc.
for that price - the Mustek and the Cyberhome. Of course I pick the one that
is teh suck.

Sorry, just needed to vent, and didn't feel like yelling. :P

Bleh.

   [1]: /entry/4275
   [2]: http://www.cyberhome-europe.de/specs/dvdplayer/chdvd505/ch505.htm
