Title: Growing up as a coder
Date: 2004-05-20 20:08:48
Slug: 2004/05/20/growing-up-as-a-coder


Writing software is getting harder and harder. The more you learn, the harder
it gets. It's not about the code (as [Drew noticed earlier][1] -- his article
got me thinking quite a bit, actually), it's about the mind, the architecture,
the wish to do things well right from the start.

I'm there. While I was hammering down rather silly but working PHP code for
G-Blog.net as it stands today, I'm advancing much more careful in my
development of the new version. Serenity (the codename for G-Blog.net v2) is
one big construction site, and even tho everything is progressing rather
nicely, I always have the feeling to forget something, a particular thought,
that - once I've overlooked it - could bring the whole thing down later on.

It's probably nonsense, but still, the nagging feeling is there.

Other than that, I'm slowly getting there. Python is a charm to work with, and
my tools of the trade are [Komodo][2], [SQLObject][3], [ElementTree][4] and
[PyTextile][5]. I've written a SettingParser module to not have to write every
settings page by hand (does the rendering of the pages, the validation of the
single settings and input fields, as well as the user level authentification,
all controlled by a description XML file), I've tightened security/privacy on
an user model level (i.e. there's even less chance anyone but you will see
your private entries), you can already make and edit entries, the
registration/login etc. are built in, user levels (as in free accounts,
premium accounts, moderators, admins etc.)â€¦ there's a lot of stuff done in its
basic form, and I think I got a good foundation to further develop the site.

As I've said, I'm slowly getting there. (Emphasis on "slowly".)

Anyways, I felt like utilizing my screen capture utility today, so here are
[some early shots of Serenity][6].

Back to work.

   [1]: http://allinthehead.com/retro/203/
   [2]: http://www.activestate.com/Products/Komodo/
   [3]: http://www.sqlobject.org/
   [4]: http://www.effbot.org/zone/element-index.htm
   [5]: http://dealmeida.net/projects/textile/
   [6]: http://docs.g-blog.net/bilder_etc/serenity/
