Title: 20 Stages of Perl to Python Conversion
Date: 2004-05-13 15:14:32
Slug: 2004/05/13/20-stages-of-perl-to-python-conversion
Tags: en, perl, python


[20 Stages of Perl to Python Conversion :: ASPN Mail Archive :: python-
list][1]:

> ### 20 Stages of Perl to Python Conversion

>

>   1. See a reference to Python being compared favorably to Perl. Think to
yourself, "another stupid little language that thinks it's better than Perl."
Ignore it. Repeat many times.

>

>   2. After seeing some reference to Python, decide, "what the hell, I'll
have a look."

>

>   3. Take a look at the language. Start with the tutorial. Become utterly
aghast at the use of indentation for nesting. Think, "Where are the braces?
Where are the begin and end statements?" Recall the horrors of Fortran 77.
Spaghetti code. Fixed column format. Think about running away screaming.

>

>   4. Decide instead to push on in disbelief. Encounter the part of the
tutorial about modules. Become utterly aghast that Python does not place high
importance on data hiding. Think, "Python not supporting data hiding goes
against every fundamental principle of object oriented programming I know
(especially since I've also been led to believe C++ is the beginning and end
of OOP)."

>

>   5. Run away screaming.

>

>   6. Time passes.

>

>   7. Realize that you'd overreacted. Think, "Python probably does have it's
place. It's still no Perl."

>

>   8. See another reference to Python, this time even more favorable than
before. Decide to give it another try, and maybe this time write some code
instead of just follow the tutorial.

>

>   9. Pick some little project, some little easy thing, you've been meaning
to do. Get to work on it in Python.

>

>   10. About halfway through the project, come to the sudden and ironic
realization that the use indentation for nesting, which you had thought would
you would never get used to, has become natural.

>

>   11. Finish the project with only the typical minor difficulties involved
in learning a new language, but without any major hair pulling.

>

>   12. Acknowledge to yourself that Python is quite nice. Admit that there
are some things about it better than Perl. Acknowledge that it is certainly
better looking. Decide to use it again. Think, "It's still no Perl."

>

>   13. Use Python again the next day for a slightly larger proejct. Only
yesterday, you would have chosen Perl for this project without another
thought. Even after finishing the previous day's little project in Python, you
had briefly considered using Python for this larger one, but decided to use
Perl because it was too large to attempt with a language you were unfamiliar
with. Today, however, you decide to use Python anyways. Python seems strangely
alluring to you. Rationalize this by telling yourself that a larger project
such as this is a good way to learn Python faster. Think, "It's still no
Perl."

>

>   14. Time passes. Life happens. Choose Python for several little projects
that come along, all for the purpose of learning it better. Think, "Python is
still no Perl."

>

>   15. Encounter a project much larger than anything you've used Python for
yet. Decide, "OK, I've been using and liking Python for all these little
projects I've been doing. Now that I have a much harder and larger project, it
is time to use the proven workhorse, Perl, a language I am very familiar with
and one that is ideally suited for this project."

>

>   16. Begin the project in Perl.

>

>   17. After writing about ten lines, begin pulling out your hair. Become
disgusted at the ugly travesty your fingers just produced. Recall the horrors
of Perl. Poor indentation. Ambiguous semantics. Line noise. That section in
the Perl man page where it gives several examples of "good ways" to implement
a switch statement, while discouraging the most straightforward way. Think, "I
cannot believe I've been swallowing this garbage for years. What a masochist I
was. I was being screwed over by this pitiful hack of a language for all that
time, and I loved it."

>

>   18. Run away screaming.

>

>   19. Finish the project in Python.

>

>   20. Refect upon your experience. Realize the dissidence of your former
admiration of Perl. Remember the occasions where you would have questioned
some of the now obvious design flaws in Perl, but didn't, because Perl was
everything cool, and everyone was using it. Think, "Python is still no Perl.
Thank God."

>

>   21. (Optional) Log on to your favorite chat room, and never miss an
opportunity to plug your new favorite language. Because your typical style is
to use understatement, your firm and absolute devotion to Python will be
perceived as a very strong message, that will make people think.

I wish our resident Perl zealots wouldn't be just that: Zealots. A more open
mind would help us all.

PS: Python is full of love and mind-numbing beauty.

   [1]: http://aspn.activestate.com/ASPN/Mail/Message/python-list/1323993
