Title: Madrid, or Why we're all doomed
Date: 2007-06-07 11:38:40
Slug: 2007-06-07-madrid-or-why-were-all-doomed
Tags: en, Energy, Life, Rant, Spain, Weather, WTF


Madrid was nice. I’ve met a lot of friendly people, co-workers and random
passersby alike, taxi drivers and dancers (more on that later), and made some
observation which lead me to believe our attempts at saving the climate are
futile.

In short: from what I observed over the course of three days, along with what
I’ve seen during our days on Teneriffe, Spain’s collective consciousness
doesn’t seem to give a damn about energy conservation.

Don’t get me wrong, please. Germany is far from being perfect and totally
awesome in that regard, but most people are _trying_ by now. Also the
government tries to get people to conserve energy, to recycle, to re-use
things. Hell, I remember the recycling ads from my childhood, so apparently
the effort is made for a good number of years by now.

But Spain… man, this was nuts. One-off styrofoam cups everywhere. Two or three
plastic cups at the watercooler, at once, which are thrown away after one go.
(I mean, why wouldn’t you, there are many more available.) I was hard pressed
to find four (4!) ceramic cups in the entire office, and used one of those
then. (Seriously, I am not recycling my pants off for years, just to start
using styrofoam cups again while being away.) People leaving their cars
running while they were waiting for someone on the street, for 10 minutes, 15
minutes… Incredible. (Apparently fuel doesn’t isn’t expensive enough yet.) And
so on.

Then I talked to a colleague from France who told me that they started a
“let’s all recycle!” campaign last year or so. _Last year._ Which means that
until last year, the concept seemed foreign to them.

There were more little things I’ve noticed, and which made me raise my
eyebrows every now and then. Now, I am not a tree hugger, and I don’t think I
am the awesomest dude around when it comes to energy conservation and reducing
waste (thusly reducing CO2 production). But if you’re a concerned citizen
human, which at this point everyone _should_ be, I think, then you can’t look
at shit like this and help but twitch.

In the end it is a governmental fault. See, here in Germany the political
caste has adopted CO2 reduction as an urgent issue, and sometimes, they even
_act_ accordingly. But even if they _don’t_, they usually present it as
burning issue, and hearing it over and over again, many people have adjusted
or are at least starting to. Somehow the system works, even if it could work
better, but we’re getting there… I hope. None of us is without sin, so there.

But apparently a lot of _European_ states seem to hope the problem seems to go
away by itself. Which I find highly disturbing, and which makes me think we’re
all doomed.
