Title: We're NOT Friends, Sorry
Date: 2007-07-24 18:32:57
Slug: 2007/07/24/were-not-friends-sorry
Tags: en, internet, rant, social networks, web


[Twitter][1] and [Pownce][2] are broken. [MySpace][3], too. Oh, and pretty
much every social networking site on the planet, too. For me, at least.

It’s not the technical aspect. Not the concept, either.

(Well, I don’t understand the hype and/or praise sites like Twitter is
getting. From a technical standpoint, it’s well done, I won’t argue that, but
I don’t get the _point_ of the sites. But back to the topic.)

No, it’s the semantics.

You see, offline, I don’t call many people “friend”. This doesn’t mean I am
surrounded by unpleasant people, quite the contrary. But I make a difference
between friends and pals or contacts. A friend is someone I would risk my life
for. Usually this two-way trust has grown over a few years, and is something
important to me.

Now, online, I am _expected_ to call every Tom, Dick or Harry “friend”, and
somehow, that doesn’t work for me. I create an account at, let’s say, Pownce,
and am instantly bombarded by new friend requests. Usually by people I haven’t
spoken to before, let alone met.

Yeah… I am afraid I can’t do that, Digital Dave.

Sites like [Flickr][4] do it differently. People are “contacts”. If I decided
I like them, I can promote them to “friends” or “family”. Which is okay. If we
have spoken online, maybe in the office, maybe even met, then I am willing to
add you as “contact”. That’s cool and _not_ diminishing our relationship.

And this is my point: just calling someone “contact” instead of “friend”
doesn’t mean I don’t like that person. It just means I don’t know him/her well
enough to consider him/her a “friend”. Because to me, this word has a
_meaning_. Shying away from labeling you “friend” isn’t impolite, it’s honest.
**Because we are not friends.**

There are people I am fond of, people I like, but with whom I am not _that_
close. I enjoy hanging out with them, and I enjoy their company, but they’re
not my friends. And that is perfectly alright, for both them and myself.

(Truth to be told, it wasn’t always like this. But I’m growing older, and my
views change.)

Another example: The other day there was a bit of drama in our little [WoW
guild][5]. There was a younger lad who we were playing and chatting with quite
often. At some point, he felt thoroughly insulted when Christian (pal of mine)
and I kindly tried to explain to him that we were not his friends. Heck, we
had never met. We were playing an online game together, and chatting a lot
while doing so. We tried to get the message across, tried to explain that we
liked him, but we didn’t consider him a friend in the true sense. He got upset
and left the guild in anger.

Well, it happens. Not much I can do about it.

The net is our (relatively) new world. Our habits are changing, human
relationships might, too—at least a bit. Still, should we abandon our values?
If everyone is a “friend”, it means nobody is. For me, this prospect leaves a
lot to be desired.

Dear site builders, please stop trying to build a virtual Woodstock. I know
you’re probably just trying to achieve a feeling of _“I belong here”_ for your
users so they come back, but for God’s sake, stop making me pretend I care
equally about everyone. Because I don’t.

—

**Update, 2007-07-25, 9:18 CEST:** jr [suggested][6] the use of a new word for this type of online kinship, and I like the idea. His suggestion was “webbie”, but to me that sounds too much like [a certain online award][7].

Anyways, my personal proposal is the use of “webster”. I’ve checked
[Wikipedia][8], the original meaning of the word has kind of “expired”, so
let’s re-use it. :) Are you with me, people?

   [1]: http://twitter.com/
   [2]: http://pownce.com/
   [3]: http://myspace.com/
   [4]: http://flickr.com/
   [5]: http://cluckworkorange.com/
   [6]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/2007/07/24/were-not-friends-sorry/#comment-7508
   [7]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webby
   [8]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webster
