Title: Jabber, OpenID And "teh shiny"
Date: 2007-01-19 21:55:38
Slug: 2007-01-19-jabber-openid-and-teh-shiny
Tags: en, Jabber, OpenID, Rant, Software


After [yesterday’s OpenID post][1] I went into pondering mode, thinking about
what would be needed to make [OpenID][2] appeal to the masses. Because, let’s
face it, even the coolest and best ideas are not necessarily taking off. Why?

Not enough of (what I like to call) _“teh shiny”_.

Let me use one of my favourite open-source projects as example: [Jabber][3]. A
great idea, a solid protocol, dynomite security and auth features, a lot of
potential and fun to tinker with. Everyone should use it. But they don’t. In
fact, outside the dev community, it’s hard to find anyone who has a clue
Jabber even exist. There is a reason for this, it’s lacking _“teh shiny”_.

Yes, it’s a stable and secure protocol, with stable servers and many okay
clients, and if we all would use Jabber as our primary IM platform, we
wouldn’t have to endure the daily IM spam messages from people named
___fudgepecker69___, claiming he/she/it has h4×0r3d lots of supposedly cool
[Yahoo! IM][4] IDs like “___fudgepecker70___” or
“___too__much___underscores_”, and that he/she/it would altruistically be
willing to part from for a _very_ reasonable price.

But, well, it **isn’t** our primary IM platform, mostly because mom, dad, your
girlfriend, wife, co-workers etc. are not willing to make the switch—because
they are somewhat afraid of dozens of different, mostly half-baked open-source
Jabber clients. (I applaud the open source community for their efforts, but
there is no Jabber client yet that I would suggest using, neither to you, the
geeky reader or my parents.) With all due respect, Joe A. Internetuser is more
concerned about the ability to “buzz” contacts or use animated smilies and
pipe the name of current iTunes song into their status message automatically
and so on. Yes, they love _“teh shiny”_ and if the other option doesn’t reach
the _“teh shiny”_ threshold, then, well, bad luck, sorry.

So, they stick to the big players with their overloaded, bulky, official IM
clients. Because on their “radar” there are no other candidates than the usual
suspects.

(A similar effect can be seen @ MySpace. It has _“teh shiny”_; every fool with
a lack of taste has the ability to build his or her personal “home” there. It
might not be good looking or tasteful to anyone else, but it is to them, and
this is qualification enough. Plus, everyone else is already there, and no
other service let’s them fuck up play around with background images and layout
that much.)

To stick with the IM example, take a look at [Skype][5]. Excellent service
with a **great** client that just works out of the box. People immediately
flocked to it, because it looks and feels just awesome. And noone cares that
it’s not open source or what the protocol does or doesn’t. They just don’t. It
works, it looks good, they’ll stick with it, end of argument.

In my opinion, Jabber hasn’t taken off yet because it is seriously lacking
_“teh shiny”_—it will make a splash when there is a _good_ client for it that
appeals to the masses. People don’t give a damn about the server component and
the protocol features and the good ideas and concepts behind a software. “If
you build it, they will come.” In our case, “it” is a colorful, great-looking
client with buzz capabilities and animated smilies and some “killer feature”
(like buzz capabilities and animated smilies, but these have been invented
already, sorry). Or something.

_(On a side note, I believe that you could make millions by writing an IM
client that would allow the user to project their webcam mugshots onto images
of yellow balls—instant, personal smilies. If you end up building something
like this: remember, I called it, and therefore expect a good cut of the
profits.)_

So, _“teh shiny”_.

OpenID is a great concept, and personally, I like it very much. What it lacks
is a killer application. Something great, with an instant “wow” factor for,
say, Jim A. Weatherblogger. In the end, noone will care whether it’s good,
solid and makes sense. Pack it up, set up a pretty website with glossy icons
and [art deco][6] design or something, offer free widget downloads for Jim A.
Weatherblogger, give it a cool name, get [BoingBoing][7] or [TechCrunch][8] to
mention it, and you’ll have winner.

I guess what I want to say is: I doubt it’ll matter whether a big player is
picking it up or not. In the end, it has to look appealing to the average
blogger.

If it’s shiny, they will use it.

Rant over.

PS: Use [Jabber][9], use [OpenID][10]. Seriously.

   [1]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/2007/01/18/the-dawn-of-openid/
   [2]: http://www.openid.net
   [3]: http://www.jabber.org
   [4]: http://messenger.yahoo.com
   [5]: http://www.skype.com
   [6]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Art_Deco
   [7]: http://boingboing.net
   [8]: http://techcrunch.com
   [9]: http://jabber.org
   [10]: http://openid.net
