Title: Follow-up To "teh shiny" Rant
Date: 2007-01-22 00:07:20
Slug: 2007-01-22-follow-up-to-teh-shiny-rant
Tags: en, Jabber, OpenID, Rant


Apparently, for whatever reason, people came here and read my mad rant about
[Jabber, OpenID And “teh shiny’‘][1]. To be perfectly honest, I was somewhat
surprised about that. Anyways, allow me to address some responses.

[Peter Saint-Andre answered with some interesting numbers.][2] (He is
Executive Director of the [XMPP Standards Foundation][3], Director of
Standards at [Jabber Inc.][4], Chair of the XMPP Council, and managing editor
of the standards process followed by the XMPP Standards Foundation.)

> [T]here are 40-50 million people using Jabber technologies these days, but
most of them probably don’t even know it since they think they’re using Google
Talk, Live Journal Talk, Chikka, IM services from NTT or BellSouth or Gizmo or
whomever, presence services like Jaiku and Twitter, etc. Or they work for
FedEx or HP or Adobe or EDS or just about any Wall Street bank and those
companies all use Jabber for their in-house IM service. Or they’re in the
Marines or work for some other government agency that has deployed Jabber. Or
they’re using something that doesn’t even look like IM because it’s in fact a
network monitoring service or workflow system or whiteboarding app that just
happens to use the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol to send around
some XML in real time. Or. Well, you get the picture. Jabber/XMPP is
fundamentally infrastructure, not a shiny client. Think HTTP, not Firefox.

Very good point, and very good numbers. (Seriously, I am actually, truly
wow’ed.) And I apologize for me not mentioning the infrastructure part. It is
part of XMPP, of course, but I was talking about wide-spread adoption of
XMPP/Jabber by the average IM user. XMPP is a superior protocol in my eyes,
and I was wondering why it didn’t take the _public_ IM landscape by storm.
That said, as impressive these numbers are, in my eyes corporate or
governmental clients and services really count, mostly because in these cases
the employer (be it a company or a country) _dictate_ which client to use. Now
if all these people would use XMPP IM clients at home as well, then that would
really make a splash.

Now I was wondering why not everyone is using an IM client that uses this
superior protocol, and the reason is: there is no client that does really
impress the public. Now, please, don’t get me wrong: There are a lot of good
Jabber clients out there that appeal to devs and geeks. Hell, I’ve used a fair
share of them myself. Some of them are pretty damn cool, others not so much,
and that’s okay. But now, even if you kick and scream about the awesomeness of
IM client XYZ, the question remains:

“Why is Joe A. IMuser still using ICQ & Co. instead of a good, slick Jabber
client?”

Think about it. We’re talking about an good selling point that is heard by the
ungeeky masses.

[Phil Wilson][5] asked [in the comments][6]:

> OpenID is for logging in to things. I look forward to your suggestion of a
killer app for “logging in to things”. Also, your [..] comparison is fatally
flawed. An IM infrastructure and protocol has a default application, an IM
server and client, OpenId has, what? a login form?

I was under the impression that it was an identity management
platform/protocol. But in the end, yes, that means it is for logging in to
things. ;) But as I’ve said, the “killer application” for OpenID could be
something quite simple. For example, being an integral part of the Wordpress
standard package so every WP installation would allow OpenID authentication by
default. Yes, no, maybe? Well, I don’t know…

Really, I don’t have (m)any answers. I was just going with my new years
resolution to blog more about what I think about. :)

<

p>Anyways: In the end, I think [Mike][7] [sums it up best][8]>

> [I]n short, the public has no imagination when it comes to protocols. The
fact that Skype took off has nothing at all to do with the backend
communication layer, except insofar as that layer was better at getting
through firewalls than anything else on the market. People used the protocol,
not because of the protocol, but because of the feature the protocol enabled.
When you say that Jabber will take off as soon as it has a client with some
killer features, I don’t think that actually says anything about Jabber
itself: you’re simply arguing for a shinier client. If Y! implemented the
killer “Smilmiis” (How’s that for a name? :) ) in Messenger, people would use
it. If AOL did the same, people would use it.

Well put, thank you. (The “mi”s in “S**mi**l**mi**is” stand for “Mike”, I
believe.)

On a personal note: I know that I often lack the ability to _pinpoint_ what I
am pondering, or where I am going with a rant. I know that. I hope that more
frequent blogging and “public pondering” will help me improve that ability.

Also, I might be totally off my rocker. That’s why I tagged it with “rant”.

   [1]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/2007/01/19/jabber-openid-and-teh-shiny
   [2]: http://saint-andre.com/blog/2007-01.html#2007-01-19T12:37
   [3]: http://www.xmpp.org/xsf/
   [4]: http://www.jabber.com/
   [5]: http://philwilson.org/blog/
   [6]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/2007/01/19/jabber-openid-and-teh-shiny/#comment-5135
   [7]: http://www.mikewest.org/
   [8]: http://</p
