Title: Outages, Overselling, Onwards!
Date: 2007-02-07 21:43:16
Slug: 2007-02-07-outages-overselling-onwards
Tags: Dreamhost, en, Hosting, Media Temple, Rant


Earlier today [Uli][1], co-worker, shell superman and father to the [freakin’
cutest kid on the face of Earth][2], told me that while my blog frontpage was
fine, he couldn’t access anything else—he always got empty pages.

Quickly digging in, I found out that my webserver was sending out some silly
information—under certain circumstances (right type of browser etc.) you’d
experience no problems, but when using anything else (for example, everything
but my own Firefox setup) you’d get, well, _bubkis_. The error.log was quickly
filling up, complaining about Zend APC somethingsomething, stuff I had neither
touched nor control over anyways.

Apparently the really friendly, but by now obviously _overwhelmed_ folks at
Dreamhost had re-configured _something_ without notice (at least I didn’t get
one), which made my site, a rather standard WP install, run haywire. Awesome.

So I packed up my wee blog and finally moved it over to my [Media Temple (gs)
grid server][3] account.

Don’t get me wrong: Dreamhost _is_ nice. They are rather responsive, always
friendly, and most of the time, the hosting quality is good. But that is the
point: it’s _just good_. Six years ago, when I signed up with DH, it was
_fabulous_. They weren’t overselling back then, and it was a really great
hoster. Over the years I ran several sites there, some big, some small, all
was smooth sailing. And then, a few years ago, the quality started to
deteriorate. The were the occasional hiccups, then outages, power failures,
hardware failures, routing problems, etc. etc. They _always_ explained what
went wrong, and reading and understanding helped to deal with the question
that had arisen during these downtimes.

But at some point, well, explaining just didn’t cut it anymore for me. First
and foremost, I want good service, period. Whether you charge fees of $8 or
$80—I don’t care, the price should match the claims. _They don’t sell
different levels of service agreements, they sell different packages of
features._

Also, I had recommended Dreamhost to a fair number of people who had signed up
as well, based on my recommendation. And when things went downhill, I felt
somehow _responsible_ for the problems these guys had, since I had trusted my
judgement, and now had to deal with bad quality.

Then there is the once-fabled [Web Panel][4]. Six years ago, it was the
“shiznit”, if you catch my meaning. Well, time moved on, but the panel didn’t
evolve, and even though it still does its job, it feels like it’s over six
years old.

And then the features. All those features. This _plethora_ of features. With
their kind-of-working implementations. Once again, don’t get me wrong: I like
features. But I’d rather have a few features less, but practical
implementations. An example: they offer [Jabber][5] support. If you have a DH
hosting account, you can set up as many Jabber servers as your heart desires.
And you can add users using the web panel! That’s great! Now here’s the
kicker—you can only add or remove them, and that’s it. Now I have a Jabber
account on my zottmann.org server there (naturally) with a lot of contacts,
but I forgot my password. And …so did my client after an update. But to change
the password, I’d need to log in to the account first, which I can’t for
obvious reasons. And the DH web panel only allows me to add or remove users,
no editing possible. In my eyes, this is a sub-optimal implementation, which
exists in this form since [July 29, 2002][6].

I am aware that I am not without fault here, I’ve made mistakes. For example,
I could’ve set up and configured my own Jabber/XMPP server, but didn’t. While
that was clearly stupidity (hindsight is 20-20, after all), it’s not the
point—I’m describing just one feature that, while being present, is severely
lacking needed functionality, and showing a lackluster implementation.

Maybe I outgrew the service, I don’t know. At the moment I’m just a bit
miffed, and contemplating which of my sites I should move next.

I wish I wouldn’t have to, that’s all.

   [1]: http://uli.hitzel.net
   [2]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/czottmann/383029447/
   [3]: http://mediatemple.net/webhosting/gs/
   [4]: http://www.dreamhost.com/hosting-panel.html
   [5]: http://jabber.org/
   [6]: http://wiki.dreamhost.com/index.php/DREAMHOST_ADDS_FREE_JABBER-BASED_INSTANT_MESSAGING_TO_ALL_WEB_HOSTING_PLANS
