Title: SearchMonkey Apps Palooza
Date: 2008-07-17 08:16:22
Slug: 2008-07-17-searchmonkey-apps-palooza
Tags: en, Hacking, Twitter, Wikipedia, Xing, Yahoo!, Yahoo! SearchMonkey


A couple of weeks ago (mid-June) I’ve participated in our internal [Yahoo!][1]
EU Hack Day. This time around I’ve decided to tinker with [Yahoo!
SearchMonkey][2] by building a couple of modules (dubbed SearchMonkey apps)
during the 24 hours available.

![][3]In case you have never heard about SearchMonkey: it’s a technology built
into [Yahoo! Search][4] that allows developers to present their own or other
peoples’ sites in a different way (examples to follow). These search result
augmentations are dubbed “SearchMonkey apps”.

The Search users then have the option to use the SearchMonkey apps they like,
which enhances their search results by presenting them in a different way;
review sites for example might present their articles in a way that includes
the rating or verdict of the reviewed item. There is a good number of
different apps available at the [SearchMonkey Apps Gallery][5].

Using SearchMonkey doesn’t influence the ranking or the order of the results;
it displays the results in the same order, just differently.

Anyways. I ended up writing 6 apps, and most of them I’d like to share. For
more information about a particular app, just click the links. They’ll take
you to the related Gallery listing, where you’ll have the option to enable the
app for your searches.

### [Twitter Profiles][6]

Whenever a Twitter profile turns up in your search, you’ll get a bit more
information about the person—number of followers, number of people followed,
name, bio, location, last tweet. like this:

![][7]

By the way, it doesn’t query the Twitter API; instead it just grabs the HTML
page and extracts the publicly available information.

Once you’ve [visited the Gallery page and installed it][6], try a [Yahoo! UK
example query][8] to see it in action.

(On a related note, there’s apparently [another Twitter SearchMonkey app][9],
but I couldn’t find the installation link to give it a try. Bart, the
developer, does things in a more complex and probably more fail-safe way; in
my defense, I wanted to keep it simple.)

### [Wikipedia Quick Lookup][10]

If a Wikipedia article is found, the app will show you its first paragraph
and, if available, a thumbnail of the first image. Also the category:

![][11]

Once you’ve [visited the Gallery page and installed it][10], try a [Yahoo! UK
example query][12] to see it in action.

### [Xing Profiles][13]

[Xing][14] is a more Europe-centric [LinkedIn][15] contender. It’s big in
Germany. If a Xing person is found, the app shows the mugshot, the location,
the title and the industry. Unfortunately Xing doesn’t reveal the company on
public profiles unless you’re logged in, which my SM app clearly is not.
Still:

![][16]

Once you’ve [visited the Gallery page and installed it][13], try a [Yahoo! UK
example query][17] to see it in action.

### [Vox Profiles][18]

In a desperate attempt to suck up to [Anil Dash][19] (I kid) I’ve hacked
together a module to show the profile of any Vox blogger when a related page
is found:

![][20]

Once you’ve [visited the Gallery page and installed it][18], try a [Yahoo! UK
example query][21] to see it in action.

### [TechCrunch / Valleywag summaries][22]

Using cutting edge high tech web 3.0 algorithms straight out of Munich,
Germany, this module is able to extract the gist of any given Techcrunch or
Valleywag article.

![][23]

I don’t like these sites very much. At least their Yahoo! coverage (which I am
interested in, given [my background][24]) is usually hysterical and often
times sensationalist. DO. NOT. WANT.

Once you’ve [visited the Gallery page and installed it][22], try a [Yahoo! UK
example query][25] to see it in action.

Well, that’s it. Maybe you like those, maybe not. :) If you’re interested in
writing your own apps for [Yahoo! SearchMonkey][2] now, take a look at the
official [Manual for SearchMonkey Developers and Publishers][26]! And if
you’re now wondering what other applications might be out there, the [Gallery
is a good place to start][5].

**UPDATE/DISCLAIMER:** Even though I work for Yahoo! during the day, these are NOT official SearchMonkey apps by Yahoo!. You’re looking at personal stuff. Again, this post, as everything on this site and under this domain, is NOT YAHOO! BUSINESS. Thank you.

   [1]: http://yahoo.com/
   [2]: http://developer.yahoo.com/searchmonkey/
   [3]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/sm_logo.png (Yahoo! SearchMonkey logo)
   [4]: http://search.yahoo.com/
   [5]: http://gallery.search.yahoo.com/
   [6]: http://gallery.search.yahoo.com/application?smid=PH3.s
   [7]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/image.jpeg
   [8]: http://uk.search.yahoo.com/search?p=twitter+carlo
   [9]: http://blog.360.yahoo.com/blog-nmtCUeQzerRT5iQg31WF0v9VWB1iCQ--?cq=1&p=74
   [10]: http://gallery.search.yahoo.com/application?smid=OZI.s
   [11]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/image-1.jpeg
   [12]: http://uk.search.yahoo.com/search?p=wikipedia+castle+rock
   [13]: http://gallery.search.yahoo.com/application?smid=RjM.s
   [14]: http://xing.com/
   [15]: http://linkedin.com/
   [16]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/image-2.jpeg
   [17]: http://uk.search.yahoo.com/search?p=xing+carlo
   [18]: http://gallery.search.yahoo.com/application?smid=JH7.s
   [19]: http://dashes.com/anil/
   [20]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/image-3.jpeg
   [21]: http://uk.search.yahoo.com/search?p=vox+carlo
   [22]: http://gallery.search.yahoo.com/application?smid=yzf.s
   [23]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/image-4.jpeg
   [24]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/carlo/
   [25]: http://uk.search.yahoo.com/search?p=%28valleywag+OR+techcrunch%29+leaving+yahoo
   [26]: http://developer.yahoo.com/searchmonkey/smguide/
