Title: Going Paleolithic
Date: 2008-08-05 00:03:00
Slug: 2008-08-05-going-paleolithic
Tags: Better Living Through Silly Ideas, Books, en, Kim Stanley Robinson, Life, Running


In his thoroughly enjoyable [_Science In The Capitol_ trilogy][1], [Kim
Stanley Robinson][2] (who happens to be my favourite author) talks about a
concept called "The Paleolithic Life"; something he also spoke about in a
[Google Tech Talk on Climate Change][3] (at ~50min in).

[![][4]][5]The idea is that there are certain activities engraved in the mind
of every human, which result in joy and happiness. These are the things the
[paleolithic][6] man did during his waking hours, things nature rewarded him
for by making him feel alive and capable and _good_, thus helping him evolve
and aiding his development.

Mr. Robinson compiled a list of these activities:

  * Spending the day outdoors
  * Walking and running
  * Looking for things
  * Making things
  * Throwing rocks
  * Cooking and eating
  * Talking and listening
  * Singing and music
  * Dancing and sex
  * Finding a mate
  * Raising kids
  * Looking at fire
  * Seeing by moonlight
  * Killing animals
  * Being killed by animals
  * Making beds at night
  * Exploring new land
  * Feeling emotions, including terror, religion, right and wrong, etc.

Especially when you spend your waking hours in an office job, most of these
activities are not part of your life anymore. We do not need to hunt for food
anymore, we're seldom being killed by animals[1][7], we don't throw rocks. But
the engraved patterns, the subconcious memories of our ancestors life in the
paleolithic, the biochemical reward mechanisms are still within us -- just
unused.

What a waste.

Having doubts about this? Here are some quick tests: If you have the chance,
find a fireplace in the night and stare at the flames for a while. Or get out
at night, take a walk by moonlight. Or meet with friends for self-made dinner.
Or have good sex. (Or all of the above, at once.)

KSR's proposal is picking up our old habits again, raking in the old rewards,
in order to lead a happier life. In a slightly modernised form, of course.
Throwing rocks is _awesome_ -- until someone is crying, that is. Which should
be avoided. So, how about Frisbee or Baseball? You throw things at things,
with less chance of killing people by accident! And think about walking,
running, building things _with your own hands_…

[![][8]][9]Intriguing, no?

(His theory doesn't seem to be entirely fresh or new, tho; I think it has
influenced some of the storylines in his wonderful [_Mars_ books][10], even
though it was not specifically mentioned (it was in the aforementioned
[_Science In The Capitol_ books][11]). Some of the characters find some inner
peace when doing more or less mundane tasks; Nirgal just wanted to run[2][12],
Nadia was happiest when she could build and make, John was at the top of his
world when he could talk with and listen to people, etc.)

**So, long story short, I'm trying to get a bit more paleolithic in my life.**

As mentioned, I have [started running in April][13], and it's actually pretty
cool. I feel _really_ good after most of my runs (not during them, mind you)
-- my new-found ability to run 5km straight is nothing short of a miracle to
me, really.

Since I don't feel like hitting and paying for other peoples' stuff, but want
to throw things at things, I bought some Frisbees and already took them out
for some hilarious practice games with Dana, we had a blast, and I will try to
make it a regular activity. I actually want to give casual [Disc Golf][14] a
try; we'll see.

Already I try to spend (a little bit) more time outdoors, mostly by walking
instead of taking the bus, watching my surroundings, i.e. walking with open
eyes. Good for the health, and sometimes you'll see interesting things,
really. And next week I'll go kayaking. Gonna be interesting.

And I will try not to be eaten by wild animals.

Opinions?

* * *

  1. The feeling of successfully outrunning/outsmarting a predator was where the reward and joy lay, KSR mentioned in his Google Tech Talk. [↩][15]

  2. Quite honestly, the figure of Nirgal, especially his recurring wish to "just run" deeply resonated with me. I'd even say he was one of the big influences that _made me_ pick up running. Don't laugh, please. Interestingly enough, _Science In The Capitol_'s Frank Vanderwal's excursions into "running frisbee golf" read so good, it made me order two discs. :P [↩][16]

   [1]: http://www.goodreads.com/review/list/1233416?shelf=series--science-in-the-capitol
   [2]: http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/1858.Kim_Stanley_Robinson
   [3]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-jz86gMiHw
   [4]: http://farm1.static.flickr.com/116/287666827_016dc60fe5_m.jpg
   [5]: http://flickr.com/photos/51035555243@N01/287666827 (A Brand New Day)
   [6]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paleolithic
   [7]: #fn:p210093156-1
   [8]: http://farm1.static.flickr.com/199/478332550_9d533b6c19_m.jpg
   [9]: http://flickr.com/photos/96332550@N00/478332550 (Sunrise Paddling on the North Canadian River)
   [10]: http://www.goodreads.com/review/list/1233416?shelf=series-mars
   [11]: http://www.goodreads.com/review/list/1233416?shelf=series-science-in-the-capitol
   [12]: #fn:p210093156-2
   [13]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/tag/running/
   [14]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disc_Golf
   [15]: #fnref:p210093156-1
   [16]: #fnref:p210093156-2
