Title: Child's Play 2008: Germany
Date: 2008-11-11 18:54:04
Slug: 2008/11/11/childs-play-2008-germany
Tags: Charity, Child's Play, en, Games, Penny Arcade


(Dies ist die englische Version [eines ursprünglich deutschsprachigen
Artikels.][1])

[![][2]][3] [Child's Play 2008][3] is on. Gamers in many countries of the
world give money or buy toys, games or other gifts for child hospitals and
stations and their little patients; partner hospitals in the US, the UK,
Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Egypt are delighted about all the
donations.

### The Question

But where's Germany? This question popped up in my head more than once during
the summer. Why aren't there any German hospitals participating in [Child's
Play][3]? In July, I've asked [Kristin Lindsay][4] (Penny Arcade's project
manager) about this, and preventively offered my help as "voluntary liason
officer".

Her answer arrived after a few days: _"We currently have no partners there
simply because none of us speak German. If you'd like to help out to get your
local facility involved, that would be fantastic!"_

### The Job

In a nutshell, the volunteers are needed to make the initial contact between
[Child's Play][3] and potential partner hospitals. CP doesn't know about these
local facilities. How should they? They need local gamers, i.e. us, just like
in all the other countries. Die people in charge in these clinics have
questions, and it helps building trust in the idea when there are local
contacts answering these questions in the local language.

From a legal point of view, the volunteers are not really involved. When a
facility decides to become a so-called partner hospital, then there'll be a
legal agreement with the US charity itself. [Child's Play][3] only works with
so-called _non-profit organizations_, tho, this can be either the hospital
directly, their volunteer guild or the hospital foundation, whichever is
applicable.

We, the volunteers, come back into play later, if at all; for example when the
clinic may require assistance in building a wish list. The business side of
the charity, i.e. sales and shipping, is handled by Amazon.

### The Story

About a week later, early August, I went to the [hospital Munich
Neuperlach][5]. After my appointment I've asked around and found the social
services office, where I was told that the clinic didn't have a pediatric
station. Bummer! But the friendly head of the office gave me names and phone
numbers of people in two other, applicable local hospitals, Munich Harlaching
und Munich Schwabing. Excellent!

Well, I didn't quite expect to see people falling over each other to hear my
case. Nonetheless I started doing my rounds on the phone. My two contacts were
friendly and helpful, but not the people responsible for dealing with
charities. Over and over I was given new names of other clinic personnel which
would take care of "requests like yours", and after a few detours I've ended
up talking to people who at least could give me some information and the right
names. It just didn't really help right away: _"The person you want to talk to
is [XYZ], but he/she is sick/on vacation/on a business trip"_.

During the next two months I've spent _a lot_ of time on the phone. I've
talked with nice hospital employees who appeared to be seriously interested,
who asked for more information. Some of them had questions I couldn't answer;
luckily there was Kristin Lindsay. :) I've relayed Kristin's answers in German
to my contacts. I've called them on a weekly basis, asked for news and whether
a decision had been made yet. But bureaucracy being what it is, this took some
time, so I've called them again… and again… and again.

In short, I've done what I've "signed up for" when asking whether they would
need a local volunteer.

### End of Season One

But then, end of October, all of a sudden it was over (at least for this run).
The administration of the Munich Municipal Hospitals told me in a short mail
that while they found [Child's Play][3] to be an interesting charity, they've
ultimately decided against participating. A pity.

In the end there was nothing left to do for me but to thank them for the
notice, and reminding them that 2008 very likely isn't going to be the last
year of CP.

Well, and that is the reason why there are no [Child's Play][3] hospitals in
Germany in 2008.

### Debriefing

Personally, I think it's a sad outcome, yes. I ponder whether I should've
contacted more than just two clinics. The chances for success would've been
much higher, of course. But this was the first time I've done something like
this, and I had no idea what to expect or how much work it would entail. I
figured I'd rather start out small, and increase the numbers in the next year.
The sky's the limit, sure; but trying to deal with 10 facilities at once in
the first run, and running the risk of failure, of letting people down, of
screwing with the reputation of [Child's Play][3] -- that didn't look like a
solid plan.

### Child's Play 2009

Next year I'm going to start out earlier in the year. Also, I've decided to
change my approach: I'll "outsource" the search for applicable and interested
hospitals.

I'll outsource them to you.

Do you know a German children's hospital or a clinic with a pediatric station
which might be interested in a contact to [Child's Play][3]? Just ask the
administration or the social services people -- just tell them about CP. If I
had to venture a guess, I'd say most clinics in Germany have no idea the
charity exists. If they're showing interest, you'll have three options:

  * You send them to [CP's Kristin Lindsay][4].
  * You give them [my contact data][6] if they want to talk to a German.
  * You handle them yourself. :)

Please keep in mind that I can't promise anything, except that I'll answer
each request.

And with a bit of luck we'll have more success in 2009, so the press might
talk about something else than _"OMG MURDAR SIMULATOR GAMSE"_. :)

### The Fineprint

I am not affiliated with Child's Play. I do not speak for the organisation,
and I am not their representative. All I am is a freelance volunteer who
thinks the idea of having [Child's Play][3] partner hospitals in Germany is a
really neat one. All statements regarding legal conditions and practices have
been made to the best of my knowledge, but still they might be poppycock.

   [1]: http://carlo.zottmann.org/2008/11/11/childs-play-2008-deutschland/
   [2]: http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7298/blog/wp-content/2008/11/cp160.gif (Child's Play ad)
   [3]: http://childsplaycharity.org/
   [4]: http://childsplaycharity.org/contact.php
   [5]: http://www.kh-neuperlach.de/index_e.html/
   [6]: mailto:carlo@zottmann.org
