Title: On (e)Books
Date: 2008-12-04 12:57:40
Slug: 2008/12/04/on-e-books
Tags: books, en, john scalzi, wtf


[John Scalzi][1]:

> That said, these are gruesome times for publishing, and a lot of folks are
not as well-positioned as I am. Imprints have vaporized, layoffs have begun,
and it’s better-than-even odds that a number of authors and books are going to
get shaved off of publishing lists. 2009 is also likely to be a singularly
lousy time to be an aspiring debut author, as publishing houses consolidate
their lists and focus their resources on established avenues (i.e., spend
their money on people who are already bestsellers) rather than seeking out new
folks. Basically, life's gonna suck in publishing for the next year or
possibly two.

I love my ebook reader ([Stanza on the iPod][2] as you can't get the Kindle
here in Germany yet), and I'd like to buy more ebooks. It's a distribution
channel which (I think) would be a pretty good way for the publishers to make
additional money …if many of these files wouldn't cost me as much or more than
the dead-tree versions.

I mean, really: I like good novels as much as the next guy, and I am
definitely willing to spend money on them. Also, I don't like hardcovers for
the price tags (yes, I think $25 is a lot of money). One would think that a
digital version would cost substantially less than the hardcover, but it’s not
always the case. Case in point: ["Zoe's Tale" by John Scalzi][3], currently on
sale for $25 (ebook, FictionWise) and $17 (hardcover, Amazon).

I have no problems with paying $7 or $8 for an ebook, but anything over $10 is
highway robbery.

Do not misunderstand me: yes, I am tempted to buy it, but I will fight the
urge, because quite frankly, John's a great writer, and I enjoy his novels
_very, very much_. Also, I don't think he's the one dictating the price — so
who's responsible for these insane prices which seriously keep me from
spending money?

(BTW: Yes, you might say _"get the paperback"_, but this is not my point. My
point is: I _want_ the digital edition, because it's the version I prefer for
various reasons.)

Anyways, I believe right now the publishing industry is facing the same
problems as the music industry — they’re shooting themselves in the foot
because they are either ignoring the possibilities of using a great
distribution channel or actively sabotaging it by asking for completely
disproportionate amounts of money.

Angry Carlo is angry.

(This is a slightly longer repost of [a comment I've left on Whatever][4].
After posting I wanted to make some clarifications, but couldn't edit the
comment, so here we go.)

   [1]: http://whatever.scalzi.com/2008/12/04/publishing-asks-why-it-is-in-a-rapidly-descending-handbasket/
   [2]: http://www.lexcycle.com/
   [3]: http://www.fictionwise.com/ebooks/eBook72256.htm
   [4]: http://whatever.scalzi.com/2008/12/04/publishing-asks-why-it-is-in-a-rapidly-descending-handbasket/#comment-121363
