Title: City At World's End, 58 Years Later
Date: 2009-11-05 23:47:06
Slug: 2009/11/05/city-at-worlds-end-58-years-later
Tags: Books, en, Reviews, Science Fiction


A while ago I've decided to do a little time travelling. In literature, that
is. So I've picked up a novel called ["City At World's End"][1], written by
one [Edmond Hamilton][2]. It's a story about a little rural community in the
US heartland having a "super-atomic bomb" go off above it, causing a rift in
time, catapulting said city into the far future, and the fight of its citizens
to remain on Earth. Adventure! [^1]

!["City At World's End" cover][4]

It is exactly what it sounds like: pure pulp. The characters are rather flat;
the premise is unintentionally hilarious. Yet, it's a pretty charming read. :)

When I've picked the book up at [feedbooks.com][5], I had a hunch about what I
was getting myself into. After all, this novel is (at the time of this
writing) _58 years_ old. That's right, it's from 1951. But I've chosen the
book for exactly that reason (also I was told it had spaceships) — I wanted to
know what successful scifi was like in the 50's of the last century. From
their point of view, I'd probably be like one of them "space folks". [^2] But
how would I end up thinking about their view of the future? How would I end up
describing their vision of the times to come?

Turns out I'd only use one word, as before: "charming". Well, that and "a bit
naïve". :)

An example. Said rural community, called Middletown, leaps one million years
into the future. One _million_ years! The sun is dying, the Earth is cold,
mankind has spread across the galaxy… yet all humans they meet are still
ordinary humans like you or me. [^3] Given that the first homo sapiens
entered the stage just around 400.000 years ago, one would expect meeting
rather different beings after another 1.000.000 years. Apparently, evolution
took a break or something.

But at least there are aliens! One of them is Chewbacca. No, I'm not making
that up. There's a Capellan (i.e. an alien from Capella) whose description is
pretty much 100% Chewbacca. He's big, hairy, ape-like, friendly, loyal and a
very good engineer. His name is Gorr Holl. — I SEE WHAT YOU DID THERE, GEORGE
LUCAS.

Then there are the communications. People tend to park their spaceships just
out of town (they have spaceships!), yet someone forgot to invent the walkie-
talkies, because there's still a lot of people running back and forth, waving
and yelling to alarm the others.

Also, the space-age people from one million years in the future are familiar
with Einstein. That's fame, I'm telling you. (No mention of Michael Jackson,
tho.)

And then… women. Oh, the women, what with their constant wailing or their firm
resolve or their pre-Doris Day'ish behaviour. Really, the picture painted of
the females is an interesting one, saying quite a bit about the age the book
was written in. On the one hand, we have Carol, the protagonist's girlfriend.
She's the friendly, quiet type who likes the "old ways". (Not what you think.)
Beneath her surface is a fragile young woman, almost a girl still, shaken to
her core. On the other hand, there's the new space love interest, Varn Allan
from space, the administrator of this neck of the woods space. On the outside,
she's a cold and efficient bureaucrat! But during the book, we learn that
beneath her surface there's a fragile young woman, almost a girl still, shaken
to her core. Diversity! Dope.

So. I know the comparison is not entirely fair, but putting _"City At World's
End"_ and its long-term vision (I fail to come up with a better term) next to
today's books, like [_"Accelerando"_ by Charles Stross][8] or (less hard
scifi) [_"Old Man's War"_ by John Scalzi][9], it looks, well, less visionary.
I am aware that in terms of "scifi seeds" today's authors have a better (?)
starting point than the authors 50 years back, but they seem to do a better
job in dreaming up a future working as canvas for their books. Maybe I've just
picked the wrong author here, who knows. And maybe the people in the 50s just
weren't ready for too "far-fetched" visions yet?

Anyways. The tech and the portrayal of the people are equally fun, and reading
the book made me grin and laugh quite a bit. But of course snickering is easy
for me, from my cushioned seat in front of my computron device. It's 2009!
Yes, we may have global warming and a outrageous lack of everyday space travel
and jetpacks, but still: it's an exciting time to be alive. There's new
technology surfacing almost weekly, from biotech to personal gadgets to
propulsion engines and whatnot.

**Well, my verdict: If you are wondering what to read next, get yourself an
old scifi book.** You might have fun. Many of them are free & legal downloads
by now. Both [Feedbooks][10] and [ManyBooks][11] (if it's up…) are good places
to start looking. And if you're unsure what to get, either just pick one with
closed eyes or ask around at [GoodReads][12]. :)


[^1]: Oh yeah, spoilers. The books almost 6 decades old by now, give me a
      break.
[^2]: In fact, I've started writing this review on the bus, on my iPod. Now
      _that's_ what I call science fiction.
[^3]: No offense, eh.

   [1]: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/641633.City_at_World_s_End
   [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edmond_Hamilton
   [3]: #fn:p234303270-1
   [4]: http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7298/blog/234303270_1.png
   [5]: http://feedbooks.com/book/2357
   [6]: #fn:p234303270-2
   [7]: #fn:p234303270-3
   [8]: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17863.Accelerando
   [9]: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51964.Old_Man_s_War
   [10]: http://feedbooks.com
   [11]: http://manybooks.net/
   [12]: http://www.goodreads.com/czottmann
   [13]: #fnref:p234303270-1
   [14]: #fnref:p234303270-2
   [15]: #fnref:p234303270-3
