Title: Review: Saints Row 2 (360)
Date: 2011-05-23 10:40:00
Slug: 2011/05/23/review-saints-row-2-360
Tags: games, 360, reviews


A few months ago I picked up Volition's 2008 game [Saints Row 2][1] for €12 on
a whim. I'd bought the German version at first --which makes sense what with
me being in Germany and all-- but shortly afterwards decided to start over
playing the uncensored UK version instead as the DE edition is basically a
different/crippled game. (The game was really butchered in order to sell it
here, to the extent that XBL actually treats both editions as two entirely
different games. It's a huge letdown.)

![Saints Row 2 box art, ca. 1978][2]

Well. Not expecting much but maybe a few
hours of slightly awkward silliness and probably nothing else, I was in for a
surprise.

You play an unforgiving (and hilariously snarky) gang leader who awakes from a
coma which he entered at the end of [Saints Row 1][3]. Fleeing the
surprisingly open high-security prison complex without much trouble, he sets
out to revive his old gang, the 3rd Street Saints, with some help from old and
new friends.

The story missions are mostly fun and engaging, but not without flaws. Some of
the checkpoints had me pull my hair out because they were obviously placed by
mad men who hated me personally. Also, there were (very few) occasional
glitches, but nothing to lose sleep about. All in all your tasks are fun. So
far, so unremarkable on paper.

Yet I came to really like Saints Row 2 because it's not ashamed of what it is,
because it's not afraid to proudly fly its colors: a game for adults who
understand that this --at its heart-- is pure and unadulterated satire.
Volition took the basic setting (gang wars in an urban setting) and made it
willfully surreal. It's to real, dramatic gang-related stories what _Naked
Gun_ was to gritty, hard-hitting detective movies.[^1]

I mean, name another game where you can dress in a pink Borat-style swim suit,
wearing a traffic cone as hat and space-age biker boots -- and then fly an
attack helicopter or conduct "business" meetings. That alone is an indicator
of the level of grit, reality and seriousness Volition had in mind when it
made Saints Row. They left the grit and deep story telling to the excellent
GTA IV that came after it.

Take its mini games for example. Like the one involving insurance fraud. And
the one about pleasing ladies in seedy locations[^2]. And the one about
stealing cars. And the one about "rescueing" other hard-working ladies from
their dubious employers. And the one about poopifying[^3] parts of the city
for money. And the one about ATV-based arson. And the one about running around
town butt-nekkid, flashing your pixelated man parts and raking up cash doing
so. And many, many more. Most of them are worthwhile, many are so-so, none of
them are about making a point in any way -- they're about having fun and
making some quick money for your ongoing quest to style your growing number of
increasingly elusive cribs in the process, and nothing else.

So yes, gang warfare. You fight three enemy gangs, the police and a big-ass
corporation which owns most of the city. And 99% of the time SR2 successfully
manages not to question its playful background. Stilwater is a clear-cut
caricature of a sprawling US city. It's incredibly easy to get lost there in
the gang-related shenanigans of the main characters there, their almost
comical lack of regard for other people's lives and property and the often
hilarious mission pieces. It is a game that full-well knows it is a game, that
its city is a ludicrous sandbox, and that's not shy to brazenly cater to its
select audience, both in and outside of missions.

Case in point: there is a particular outlandish cutscene after the, let's say,
"forceful eviction" of a good number of drifters from the new designated
Saints gang hideout. Johnny Gat and the player character sit on a couch,
bodies strewn all around them -- then they banter and fist-bump, and you were
forgiven for thinking they were just like two regular dudes after another day
of hard labour if it wasn't for the dead guy in front of the couch they were
using to prop up their feet.

I'm man enough to tell you: yes, I laughed, exactly _because_ it was crazy.
Volition knew it when they wrote it, I knew it when I saw it, we were sharing
a joke there. Was it deep, meaningful high-brow humor? Hell, no. Funny it was
nonetheless.

And while the question of morale is avoided for most of the game, it isn't
entirely absent. In one of the final missions there is a dialog between the
protagonist and his former leader and mentor, where --in the last minute of
said mentor's life-- they discuss their respective motivations. And while the
mentor is trying to talk sense into him, telling him all the violence and
death can't go on, the Boss (the player character) all of a sudden spouts: _"I
don't give a shit… **I own** this city!"_. I applaud [Charles Shaughnessy][7]
for his crackerjack voice work as the Boss[^4] -- in this very moment I came
to realize that this character does have his own agenda after all, apart from
allowing me to wield him as my chosen tool in the joyful redecoration of
entire Stilwater city blocks. He _is_ a ruthless asshole, even if I came to
forget that over all the lol'ing and giggling in the hours prior. In that
dialog his true colors shone through, and though the entire game is basically
a huge hedonistic exercise in violent and juvenile humor, the Boss' short
monologue gave him quite a bit of added depth -- it hit home for me.

It was a good, maybe even great moment in an outstandingly insane game. How
good? I still remember and think about it, even two months after finishing the
game. It managed to give SR2 a slightly different tone that reverberated back
from the _end_ of the game through my memories of the whole experience. It
wasn't a heavy-handed _"Gangs are bad, mmkay, kids?"_, far from it; again,
Volition acknowledged its audience, recognized it for what it is --adults--
and gave a little bit of reinforced context to make a subtle point: they know
full well _what_ they're making fun of.

Chapeau.

So my overall verdict of SR2 is _"absolutely worth my time"_. I refuse to hand
out arbitrary points or scores for games as that system is bollocks anyways.
Instead, I'll opt for [Marcus'][9] scoring scheme which basically asks you
what you would be willing to pay for the game once you've actually played it.
How much money do you feel is justified for a copy of this game? For me, the
answer is:

**Saints Row 2: €40.**

* * *

[^1]: Look it up, kids.
[^2]: But you only see said location from the outside, and have to play by ear and gamepad vibration. Sorry.
[^3]: Yes, it's a word… now.
[^4]: Why, I picked the English voice for my character. It's got style.

   [1]: http://www.giantbomb.com/saints-row-2/61-20679/
   [2]: http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7298/blog/5762453072_1.jpg
   [3]: http://www.giantbomb.com/saints-row/61-5618/
   [4]: #fn:p5762453072-1
   [5]: #fn:p5762453072-2
   [6]: #fn:p5762453072-3
   [7]: http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0789478/
   [8]: #fn:p5762453072-4
   [9]: http://monoxyd.de
   [10]: #fnref:p5762453072-1
   [11]: #fnref:p5762453072-2
   [12]: #fnref:p5762453072-3
   [13]: #fnref:p5762453072-4
